How do you define something that
is so intangible that even the
results of it?
May not show up for weeks, and
perhaps in months.
Gateway in and of itself is
properly defined as say a means
of freedom. A new kind of
freedom that perhaps you never
before experienced in your life.
A chance at this new kind of
freedom. Also, it's a an
exploration say of consciousness
and most particularly your
consciousness. How does it do
this? Well, I'm sure you're
aware of right at this
particular moment what?
We call him missing car.
Hennessey, a loose term that we
use for hemispheric
synchronization, which is what
you're here to do to experience
the process of hemispheric
synchronization. If you don't
know about it, perhaps I should
hand out some brochures and tell
you what hema sink is.
Suffice to say that it is a
method. It is one of the tools
and perhaps the basic tool that
we use in gateway.
And Speaking of tools that's
what the real processes is the
teaching of little tools to
achieve this freedom that we
speak out and that freedom can
only be expressed by your own
consciousness, not mine, not any
of the People who help you and
go through this gateway process,
he it comes from your own
actions. Now we have only
one particular piece of dogma
that you have to consider.
The night is that you.
The essence of you.
Are more than your physical
body? What that means beyond
that particular statement is
part of the exploration of
consciousness that you yourself
will enter into?
Consciousness such a loose loose
word to describe something that
so tremendously vast.
And human consciousness in
and of itself.
What we know of it today?
Is only perhaps a fraction of
the reality about human
consciousness can be?
Gateway helps you explore.
The borders the edges of human
consciousness as we know it. The
tools, we provide again help you
do and perform that exploration.
One of the things that we insist
on that you do understand.
That gateway does not guarantee.
That you will have an outer body
experience now of course. I know
you in a lot of you, perhaps
King, saying Oh I will have an
out of body experience.
Percentage Wise. I
will say that what 15% of the
People who attend a gateway
session, having out of by
experience during the session.
The tools are for consciousness
and the auto body state as we
know it. Is a form of
consciousness and tools that we
provide you an perhaps at some
time may let you achieve this
mistake of being out of body.
But there's no guarantees in
this particular program that
that will take place, either
during the program itself or
subsequently. If so I think
he checked with our friendly
super supervisors who are
waiting nearby and they will
be glad to say, well, I'm
sorry. This is not for you,
if that's your total
expectation 'cause. We can't
guarantee it? How could we
guarantee what any human
being will do.
The opportunity yes.
And the possibility yes.
The tools as I said
yes guarantee no.
So. With that in mind, and
that this is an exploration of
consciousness for you.
If you learn these tools.
And you apply them indeed it
will give you an indescribable
kind of freedom.
In the days weeks.
The rest of your life.
That's what these tools can do.
However, we have one small
problem, maybe 2, maybe 3.
Can realize these tools properly
you have to begin at least the
primary stage of understanding
yourself? How do you do this you
have to understand first of all?
What you are where you are?
And later on, you will find
perhaps while you are.
There are barriers that you
encounter in this explanation of
consciousness. These barriers in
and of themselves are not
insurmountable that all be if
they are barriers.
There are 2.
Possibly, 3 primary barriers
that will stand in your way.
The first of those is fear.
And the fear Association and the
underlying pattern of thier dash
rage. Is the primary one and you
say Oh? I don't have any fear or
I don't have any rage within the
some of the most profound People
who made that statement. And
when they begin to uncover.
Other elements in their
exploration of consciousness
elements of themselves, they
discovered this fear in this
rage. Anas they prove deeper and
This is why this thing is so
important. This this prime
position of accepting are
considering belief. This range
and fear among most People, has
to do. Will the death in
send a fear that I will die
because of him an immense
pattern that you have developed
from birth, perhaps imprimitive
birth this sense survive.
And we have learned to take
that survival imprint.
Just because of physical living.
And that survival says physical
survival. And physical survival
is totally destroyed if there is
such a thing as death.
Once you have.
The knowledge of that fear
and it is on the
undercurrent of all of us.
Where is the related factor and
that's range? What's the wage
all about the rage is due to the
fact? That you're going to
have to die.
She how they connect fear I'm
afraid I'm going to die 2.
Anger because I have to die and
that defeats the whole concept.
The entire concept of survival
because that input.
You have learned or believe.
Has to do strictly with physical
survival? So so much you mean
life has been geared to physical
survival? Virtually all of my
culture is aimed at physical
survival, so far are we talking
about consider that first
pattern. The first pattern
being. I am more than my
physical body. If you consider
that premise that tiny piece of
dogma as possibly being real.
Then. You have to consider
very seriously.
Well, being more than your
physical body you also may well
continue to be more than your
physical body that is one of the
prime possibilities of freedom
that gateway provides that the
tools help you determine.
That are 1.
Is? A pattern in existence where
this more than the physical you
survives a thing we call
physical death. That's one of
the primers? How is this covered
over this is covered over by the
enculturation that is worldwide
is not peculiar to an hour quote
American cultural system, it's
worldwide. The fact that
we in turn.
Have a stab Liszt belief systems
that set up Mallory's that in
case all of us within a box.
And that's the limit of our
belief systems and we feel safe
and secure. As our culture helps
us new in these particular their
belief systems that create the
box and we do not want
necessarily to remove the box
and in removing just a little
crack in the box and they seem
very, very, very dangerous.
To all of these belief systems
that have long, perhaps we
learn, some of them on our
mothers and perhaps in school,
we learn them.
Women all around us.
The things they do with the
structures that create a box
that limits US.
Gateway. Helps you
Create Windows Indoors in that
box. Red box in which I have
been in which I am still to a
very great degree and you box is
much the same? I've been in new
box. My box has many holes
in it now of course, and yet
that box still exists
because I am here now.
What is your box? I can't tell
you what your boxes that
restrains you? Take me long
enough to find out what my nose.
Never mind here's and I'm not
interested in knowing the
details of your box.
My job is to act as a catalyst
to help you create doors and
windows in that box.
Gateway. Freedom. Freedom
from the box.
There are a few other things
that that might help you in turn
get started on this gateway
voyage. This gateway discovery
of who you are why you are
what you are.
In part of bread is in turn.
Most importantly, I will swear
by. You can get a different
perspective on yourself.
And where you are, and being
kind of a lazy type and running
out of words. Diane he will join
me over at that favored device
called a flip chart. I'll try
and get my left hand word to
describe it. A little more
graphically or at least it gives
me an excuse to describe it more
graphically well. This is
a flip chart.
And flip charts are supposed to
flip so suppose we flip the flip
chart. And happily we have
something on the flip chart,
courtesy of a friend.
What was I going to talk about
Oh yes. Who we are where we
are why we are?
Best I can do at this moment is
to help you begin to understand.
Where you are?
Therefore, it's easier to do
it graphically let's take these
different patterns. Of the human
let's assume that be stands from
birth and this is a line of.
Growth. Are the
experience?
As a human they say that this is
a path and this expresses what I
will call. A state of
innocence had birth you begin
this. Pattern and
as a clean slate.
As a human clean sleep
in human consciousness.
As you beginning to grow.
You lose these parts of
innocence.
News only part of them under a
standard procedure, look over
here and I'll show you what I
mean. The average human.
News is this innocence for a
given part of his life and then
on the rest of his life.
Removes along to the exit
point, which some People
like to call death.
I'm one of them.
Along this path of innocence.
Their neck support and most of
that loss of innocence.
Occurs were during the 1st 20,
some plus years.
Of a human life.
How does one lose this innocence
when loses this innocence?
Through the old familiar cause
and Effect Law? What is that now
in terms of innocence.
A child, a little child, we
hoped. Lens through cause and
effect that if he touches this
hot stole the stove burns his
fingers. Therefore, he has lost
his innocence relative to stove
burn fingers. In doing so, he
has picked up.
Authority and responsibility,
which go hand in hand with cause
and effect authority
responsibility. He now has the
authority to continue to burn
his fingers and the
responsibility for having burned
fingers could because a Mommy
can't be around all the time to
see that he doesn't burn his
fingers because he he's a sneaky
type, but he has learned for
himself that he can no longer
get away. With the effects of
touching hot stove. So he picks
up the authority and the
responsibility that is that path
of innocence. They more
authority, the more
responsibility that you assume
in their life.
Then greater. The loss of
your innocence. However, because
of how we live.
The culture in which we
live in Mrs worldwide. We
turn that authority over.
To others and concurrently we
turn the responsibility over to
others course, Mommy and Daddy
take care of it up to a certain
stage in our culture and
purportedly I supposed to let go
after that. And let
That human assume his own
authority and his own.
Responsibility me that is, it
Maine. If you look back over and
see this path it's very flat.
Because of at this point we
learn certain growth and moving
on through here.
We turn it over generally.
To the enculturation of others
and that's what produces the box
in part now.
First, the tools.
That are part of gateway.
The process of gateway changes
that accelerates that.
Pattern of loss of innocence and
the accumulation of authority
responsibility so. That is
moving over on this path over
here to a mystical state, called
adulthood, and that state of
adulthood. Is virtually?
An unattainable goal that we
reach as far as we can to obtain
this form for adulthood
adulthood. In and of itself, the
assumption of as much authority
and responsibility, as we can.
So that's one gauge of where we
are, and look what?
Did we may do in terms of
reaching that goal of
adulthood? Next stage here?
Let's say over here? Is a
road same pattern birth.
And this is the road of
maturity. We call it again. A
learning process that stops here
or nearly and moves along in a
relative level. Path over to
the exit point.
Level. Druthers very, very
little more of what we call
maturity. How does one measure
this business of maturity again
this is from our perspective?
One measures maturity.
Based upon the number
of allusions. That you have
discarded or released.
Illusions.
Not. This allusions, not
illusions torn from you by
some traumatic event or by
things beyond your control
that your deliberate release.
EV allusions, perhaps the most
cherished ones are the most
difficult ones to release but
that's part of it.
Again then this gateway
process.
In meeting, too, that almost
unattainable goal of maturity.
Is measured again along the
number of illusions the amount
of illusions that you have
discarded? Or released.
The gateway process again helps
you. Assist you.
But no more does not define by
any manner means your illusions.
That you will release and
discard leading to this pattern
of maturity maturity.
Lease of illusions.
Now we have
another.
Highway. Because it becomes more
significant they had a path or
road and now highway. This
highway begins at birth has
pretty much the same growth
statement but this highway.
Leads to an indefinable state
that we call wisdom and
unattainable goal way up here.
The wisdom. How do you
measure that pattern as you
can see the wisdom pattern
again is very flat?
Gateway process the tools if you
use them. Lead you again on a
Higher and higher reaching curve
leading to wisdom smarter say
that you get to this total
wisdom? How do you measure that?
That is measured.
Alone. The scale.
Of your actions what you do
think and be upon.
They release of the illusions
that you. Get rid of
this card understand.
Nice to measurement.
Of wisdom. A measurement
of wisdom.
Again, Flatline as against this
growth line. Provided by what
you are into now gateway.
Finally. And the most difficult
to define of all.
Is what we tried already to
say and that's freedom and
generally here freedom may
occur somewhere where your
past twenty one pass voting
age or whatever it is, and
that's the flight line again
look at this fat lines and
here wisdom.
Maturity innocence.
Freedom. And the freedom that
were speaking about is so far
off the scale. I can't even
measurement. This is perhaps an
inch in 100,000 miles? How is
that measured? How do we measure
that some on the direction of
freedom? That.
Is? They compel them.
Of these 3 growth patterns.
These 3 patterns of
development. That's the
freedom how to express' that
freedom for you individually.
I wouldn't think to even
seriously consider. How in turn?
I think define freedom for you.
I can for me.
But I can't bring you this those
are the boxes we're all in.
The freedom Is moving out
away from the confines of
those box those boxes
near box mine whatever?
That's the best way I can
describe what the Freedom is.
Generally, I've had my
friend with my chart.
Let me go over here.
So. Perhaps in some
way that will give you an idea
of the beginning for you of
gateway. Where you
are how you are?
Where you are?
Are the subjects that you will
investigate in your exploration
of your own consciousness?
The other server, although
several other points that
I think.
You should be aware of.
We have an affirmation as
your I hope I've read
anyway. At this time and
it does say a statement.
An affirmation that you are more
than your physical body. But
there's another part of it and a
lot of People say what does that
mean? And that statement is.
For those who follow me.
Gateway the process
in and of itself.
Is an evolving unit?
An evolving pattern.
Who are following some Watt 4000
plus People? Who have been
through the gateway process and
have contributed their
experience in this to what in
you work with the tools you use
they are a product?
What you do?
And what you respond to within
the gateway process itself.
Is utilized and build into this
training mode? For those who
follow you, so we in turn make
your contribution just as you
are working with the
contributions of all of those
who preceded you.
For those who follow you, you
believe your stamp.
Your contribution to the
gateway training system.
Most of all.
Whatever you do.
It is a fun process if you lose
the fun of it.
You lost the entire thing.
So all I can tell you is
as you learn the tools as
you learn to use them.
Make a joyful.
Have fun.
Go to work
now.